•
Q1: Playing With House Money—Like other forms of entertainment, the amount of money an individual spends on sports gambling is tied to their disposable income (what is left over after paying for essentials like food, rent, taxes, and healthcare). Develop a model that takes as input an individual’s salary, age, and any other demographic information you deem relevant, and returns an estimate of the person’s disposable income. Your solution should include a demonstration of your model on inputs from a variety of demographic groups.
•
Q2: Know the Spread—The profit of sports gambling companies can be used to get a rough idea of how much total money is being lost via sports gambling in the U.S. and U.K. However, the way these losses are distributed across the population is less clear. Some demographics (ages, genders, etc.) might gamble more frequently than others. Even within demographic groups, a gambler’s risk tolerance or choice of bets can impact how much they win or lose. Create a model that predicts how much an individual will gain or lose through online sports gambling over the course of one year based on their demographics and other assumptions about the individual (e.g., their risk tolerance).
•
Q3: Don’t Break the Bank—From Q1 and Q2, you should have a good sense of how much individuals spend on online sports gambling compared to their disposable income. But what should society take away from these predictions? In this problem, you are tasked with quantifying the impact of spending on sports gambling in a way that is understandable to the general public. There is no single correct approach. You might choose to compare the amount spent on sports gambling to other forms of entertainment, you might quantify how gambling losses will impact long-term household savings, or you might model the percentage of people that are at risk of going into debt due to online gambling. Take these ideas as starting points and be creative.